content/supply-chain.md, before:

---
title: "Data Scientist in Supply Chain"
date: "2020-04-19T21:48:51-07:00"
layout: "about"
menu: "main"
weight: 100
---

## General knowledge about Supply Chain

### Basic

1. Clement J, Coldrick A, Sari J. Manufacturing data structures: building foundations for excellence with bills of materials and process information. Chichester: Wiley; 1995. 
2. Arnold JRT, Ph. D. Chapman SN, Clive LM. Introduction to Materials Management Casebook. Upper Saddle River, N.J; 2000. 138 p. 
3. Introduction to Materials Management. 8 edition. Boston: Pearson; 2016. 512 p. 
### Advanced

1. Factory Physics. 3 edition. Long Grove, Ill: Waveland Pr Inc; 2011. 720 p. 

### Lean

1. The Toyota Way: 14 Management Principles from the World’s Greatest Manufacturer. 1 edition. McGraw-Hill Education; 2003. 362 p. 
2. Lean Production Simplified: A Plain-Language Guide to the World’s Most Powerful Production System. 3 edition. Productivity Press; 2016. 223 p. 

### Six Sigma

1. Cano EL, Moguerza JM, Redchuk A. Six sigma with R: statistical engineering for process improvement. New York, NY: Springer; 2012. 284 p. (Use R!). 

### Theory of constraints

My favorite section. TOC was like a revelation to me.

1. Goldratt EM, Cox J. The Goal: A Process of Ongoing Improvement. Revised edition. Great Barrington, MA: North River Pr; 1992. 384 p. 
2. Goldratt EM, Goldratt-Ashlag E. The Choice, Revised Edition. Revised edition. North River Press; 2010. 240 p. 
3. Goldratt EM, Schragenheim E, Ptak CA. Necessary but Not Sufficient. North River Press; 2000. 242 p. 
4. Goldratt EM. It’s Not Luck. 1 edition. Great Barrington, MA: North River Pr; 1994. 283 p. 
5. Goldratt EM, Eshkoli I, Brownleer J. Isn’t It Obvious?: A Business Novel on Retailing Using the Theory of Constraints. 232 p. 
6. Goldratt EM. Critical Chain: A Business Novel. 246 p. 

## Forecasting

### Business knowledge

1. Sales and Operations Planning The How-To Handbook. 3 edition. Cincinnati, Ohio: Steelwedge Software; 2008. 266 p. 

### Statistics/Data Science

1. Wang  [aut E, cre, Cook  [aut D, ths, Hyndman  [aut R, ths, et al. tsibble: Tidy Temporal Data Frames and Tools [Internet]. 2020 [cited 2020 Apr 20]. Available from: https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=tsibble
2. Hyndman R, Kourentzes N. thief: Temporal Hierarchical Forecasting [Internet]. 2018 [cited 2020 Apr 20]. Available from: https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=thief
3. Wickramasuriya SL, Athanasopoulos G, Hyndman RJ. Optimal Forecast Reconciliation for Hierarchical and Grouped Time Series Through Trace Minimization. Journal of the American Statistical Association [Internet]. 2019 Apr 3 [cited 2020 Apr 20];114(526):804–19. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1080/01621459.2018.1448825
4. Hyndman RJ, Ahmed RA, Athanasopoulos G, Shang HL. Optimal combination forecasts for hierarchical time series. Computational Statistics & Data Analysis [Internet]. 2011 Sep 1 [cited 2020 Apr 20];55(9):2579–89. Available from: http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167947311000971
5. creator) RH (Package, methods) AL (Fast computation using recursive, Wang E, minimization) SW (Reconciliation via trace. hts: Hierarchical and Grouped Time Series [Internet]. 2020 [cited 2020 Apr 20]. Available from: https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=hts
6. Hyndman RJ, Athanasopoulos G. Forecasting: principles and practice ; [a comprehensive indtroduction to the latest forecasting methods using R ; learn to improve your forecast accuracy using dozenss of real data examples. 2018. 
7. Athanasopoulos G, Hyndman RJ, Kourentzes N, Petropoulos F. Forecasting with temporal hierarchies. European Journal of Operational Research [Internet]. 2017 Oct 1 [cited 2020 Apr 20];262(1):60–74. Available from: http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0377221717301911
8. Hyndman R, Koehler AB, Ord JK, Snyder RD. Forecasting with Exponential Smoothing: The State Space Approach [Internet]. Berlin Heidelberg: Springer-Verlag; 2008 [cited 2020 Apr 20]. (Springer Series in Statistics). Available from: https://www.springer.com/gp/book/9783540719168
9. Hyndman  [aut R, cre, cph, Athanasopoulos G, Bergmeir C, Caceres G, et al. forecast: Forecasting Functions for Time Series and Linear Models [Internet]. 2020 [cited 2020 Apr 20]. Available from: https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=forecast
10. O’Hara-Wild M, Hyndman R, Wang E, implementation) GC (NNETAR. fable: Forecasting Models for Tidy Time Series [Internet]. 2020 [cited 2020 Apr 20]. Available from: https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=fable
11. Hyndman RJ. CRAN Task View: Time Series Analysis. 2020 Apr 14 [cited 2020 Apr 20]; Available from: https://CRAN.R-project.org/view=TimeSeries

# Record Linkage

1. Loo M PJ ,van,der. The stringdist Package for Approximate String Matching. The R Journal [Internet]. 2014 [cited 2020 Apr 13];6(1):111. Available from: https://journal.r-project.org/archive/2014/RJ-2014-011/index.html
2. Sariyar M, Borg A. The RecordLinkage Package: Detecting Errors in Data. The R Journal [Internet]. 2010 [cited 2020 Apr 13];2(2):61–7. Available from: https://journal.r-project.org/archive/2010/RJ-2010-017/index.html
3. Harron K, Goldstein H, Dibben C. Methodological developments in data linkage. Chichester, West Sussex, United Kingdom: Wiley; 2016. 
4. Herzog TN, Scheuren FJ, Winkler WE. Data quality and record linkage techniques. New York, NY: Springer; 2007. 227 p. 
5. Christen P. Data matching: concepts and techniques for record linkage, entity resolution, and duplicate detection. Berlin ; New York: Springer; 2012. 270 p. (Data-centric systems and applications). 
6. Developer AB, Developer MS. RecordLinkage: Record Linkage Functions for Linking and Deduplicating Data Sets [Internet]. 2020 [cited 2020 Apr 13]. Available from: https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=RecordLinkage
7. openvenues/libpostal [Internet]. openvenues; 2020 [cited 2020 Apr 12]. Available from: https://github.com/openvenues/libpostal
8. Laan J van der. djvanderlaan/reclin [Internet]. 2020 [cited 2020 Apr 12]. Available from: https://github.com/djvanderlaan/reclin


# Queuing Theory

1. Canadilla P. queueing: Analysis of Queueing Networks and Models [Internet]. 2019 [cited 2020 Apr 13]. Available from: https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=queueing
2. Jiménez PC, Montoya YR. queueing: A Package For Analysis Of Queueing Networks and Models in R. The R Journal [Internet]. 2017 [cited 2020 Apr 13];9(2):116–26. Available from: https://journal.r-project.org/archive/2017/RJ-2017-051/index.html
3. Queueing Theory Books On Line [Internet]. [cited 2020 Apr 13]. Available from: http://web2.uwindsor.ca/math/hlynka/qonline.html
4. Adan I, Resing J. Queueing Systems. :182. 
5. Salazar R. Queueing Models with R [Internet]. Medium. 2020 [cited 2020 Apr 13]. Available from: https://towardsdatascience.com/queueing-models-with-r-a794c78e6820
6. Ebert A, Wu P, Mengersen K, Ruggeri F. Computationally Efficient Simulation of Queues: The R Package queuecomputer. arXiv:170302151 [math, stat] [Internet]. 2019 Mar 6 [cited 2020 Apr 13]; Available from: http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.02151
7. berryrm.pdf [Internet]. [cited 2020 Apr 13]. Available from: https://www.whitman.edu/documents/Academics/Mathematics/berryrm.pdf
8. Ebert “Ace” A. AnthonyEbert/queuecomputer [Internet]. 2019 [cited 2020 Apr 13]. Available from: https://github.com/AnthonyEbert/queuecomputer
9. Bhat UN. An Introduction to Queueing Theory: Modeling and Analysis in Applications [Internet]. 2nd ed. Birkhäuser Basel; 2015 [cited 2020 Apr 13]. (Statistics for Industry and Technology). Available from: https://www.springer.com/gp/book/9780817684204

# Process Mining

1. Business Process Analysis [Internet]. [cited 2020 Apr 13]. Available from: https://www.bupar.net/
2. Janssenswillen G, Depaire B, Swennen M, Jans M, Vanhoof K. bupaR: Enabling reproducible business process analysis. Knowledge Based Systems [Internet]. 2019 Jan 1 [cited 2020 Apr 13]; Available from: https://scinapse.io/papers/2898939393
3. Janssenswillen G, Mannhardt F, Martin N, Houdt GV. bupaR: Business Process Analysis in R [Internet]. 2020 [cited 2020 Apr 13]. Available from: https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=bupaR
4. Janssenswillen G, Depaire B. bupaR: Business Process Analysis in R. In 2017. 

# Quality control

WIP. This section will be filled with Deming, Juran and others.

Commit message:

new items in supply-chain

content/supply-chain.md, after:

---
title: "Data Scientist in Supply Chain"
date: "2020-04-19T21:48:51-07:00"
layout: "about"
menu: "main"
weight: 100
---

## General knowledge about Supply Chain

### Basic

1. Clement J, Coldrick A, Sari J. Manufacturing data structures: building foundations for excellence with bills of materials and process information. Chichester: Wiley; 1995. 
2. Arnold JRT, Ph. D. Chapman SN, Clive LM. Introduction to Materials Management Casebook. Upper Saddle River, N.J; 2000. 138 p. 
3. Introduction to Materials Management. 8 edition. Boston: Pearson; 2016. 512 p. 
4. King P. Crack the Code Understanding safety stock and mastering its equations. 2011; Available from: http://web.mit.edu/2.810/www/files/readings/King_SafetyStock.pdf



### Advanced

1. Factory Physics. 3 edition. Long Grove, Ill: Waveland Pr Inc; 2011. 720 p. 

### Lean

1. The Toyota Way: 14 Management Principles from the World’s Greatest Manufacturer. 1 edition. McGraw-Hill Education; 2003. 362 p. 
2. Lean Production Simplified: A Plain-Language Guide to the World’s Most Powerful Production System. 3 edition. Productivity Press; 2016. 223 p. 
3. McLean T. On time, in full: achieving perfect delivery with lean thinking in purchasing, supply chain, and production planning. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press, Taylor & Francis Group; 2017. 184 p. 


### Six Sigma

1. Cano EL, Moguerza JM, Redchuk A. Six sigma with R: statistical engineering for process improvement. New York, NY: Springer; 2012. 284 p. (Use R!). 

### Theory of constraints

My favorite section. TOC was like a revelation to me.

1. Goldratt EM, Cox J. The Goal: A Process of Ongoing Improvement. Revised edition. Great Barrington, MA: North River Pr; 1992. 384 p. 
2. Goldratt EM, Goldratt-Ashlag E. The Choice, Revised Edition. Revised edition. North River Press; 2010. 240 p. 
3. Goldratt EM, Schragenheim E, Ptak CA. Necessary but Not Sufficient. North River Press; 2000. 242 p. 
4. Goldratt EM. It’s Not Luck. 1 edition. Great Barrington, MA: North River Pr; 1994. 283 p. 
5. Goldratt EM, Eshkoli I, Brownleer J. Isn’t It Obvious?: A Business Novel on Retailing Using the Theory of Constraints. 232 p. 
6. Goldratt EM. Critical Chain: A Business Novel. 246 p. 

### Total quality management

1. Deming WE. Out of the crisis. 1. MIT Press ed. Cambridge, Mass.: The MIT Press; 2000. 507 p. 
2. (20) Red Bead Experiment with Dr. W. Edwards Deming - YouTube [Internet]. [cited 2020 Apr 22]. Available from: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ckBfbvOXDvU

## Forecasting

### Business knowledge

1. Sales and Operations Planning The How-To Handbook. 3 edition. Cincinnati, Ohio: Steelwedge Software; 2008. 266 p. 
2. Proud JF. Master Scheduling: A Practical Guide to Competitive Manufacturing. 3 edition. Hoboken, N.J: Wiley; 2013. 688 p. 


### Statistics/Data Science

1. Wang  [aut E, cre, Cook  [aut D, ths, Hyndman  [aut R, ths, et al. tsibble: Tidy Temporal Data Frames and Tools [Internet]. 2020 [cited 2020 Apr 20]. Available from: https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=tsibble
2. Hyndman R, Kourentzes N. thief: Temporal Hierarchical Forecasting [Internet]. 2018 [cited 2020 Apr 20]. Available from: https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=thief
3. Wickramasuriya SL, Athanasopoulos G, Hyndman RJ. Optimal Forecast Reconciliation for Hierarchical and Grouped Time Series Through Trace Minimization. Journal of the American Statistical Association [Internet]. 2019 Apr 3 [cited 2020 Apr 20];114(526):804–19. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1080/01621459.2018.1448825
4. Hyndman RJ, Ahmed RA, Athanasopoulos G, Shang HL. Optimal combination forecasts for hierarchical time series. Computational Statistics & Data Analysis [Internet]. 2011 Sep 1 [cited 2020 Apr 20];55(9):2579–89. Available from: http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167947311000971
5. creator) RH (Package, methods) AL (Fast computation using recursive, Wang E, minimization) SW (Reconciliation via trace. hts: Hierarchical and Grouped Time Series [Internet]. 2020 [cited 2020 Apr 20]. Available from: https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=hts
6. Hyndman RJ, Athanasopoulos G. Forecasting: principles and practice ; [a comprehensive indtroduction to the latest forecasting methods using R ; learn to improve your forecast accuracy using dozenss of real data examples. 2018. 
7. Athanasopoulos G, Hyndman RJ, Kourentzes N, Petropoulos F. Forecasting with temporal hierarchies. European Journal of Operational Research [Internet]. 2017 Oct 1 [cited 2020 Apr 20];262(1):60–74. Available from: http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0377221717301911
8. Hyndman R, Koehler AB, Ord JK, Snyder RD. Forecasting with Exponential Smoothing: The State Space Approach [Internet]. Berlin Heidelberg: Springer-Verlag; 2008 [cited 2020 Apr 20]. (Springer Series in Statistics). Available from: https://www.springer.com/gp/book/9783540719168
9. Hyndman  [aut R, cre, cph, Athanasopoulos G, Bergmeir C, Caceres G, et al. forecast: Forecasting Functions for Time Series and Linear Models [Internet]. 2020 [cited 2020 Apr 20]. Available from: https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=forecast
10. O’Hara-Wild M, Hyndman R, Wang E, implementation) GC (NNETAR. fable: Forecasting Models for Tidy Time Series [Internet]. 2020 [cited 2020 Apr 20]. Available from: https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=fable
11. Hyndman RJ. CRAN Task View: Time Series Analysis. 2020 Apr 14 [cited 2020 Apr 20]; Available from: https://CRAN.R-project.org/view=TimeSeries

# Record Linkage

1. Loo M PJ ,van,der. The stringdist Package for Approximate String Matching. The R Journal [Internet]. 2014 [cited 2020 Apr 13];6(1):111. Available from: https://journal.r-project.org/archive/2014/RJ-2014-011/index.html
2. Sariyar M, Borg A. The RecordLinkage Package: Detecting Errors in Data. The R Journal [Internet]. 2010 [cited 2020 Apr 13];2(2):61–7. Available from: https://journal.r-project.org/archive/2010/RJ-2010-017/index.html
3. Harron K, Goldstein H, Dibben C. Methodological developments in data linkage. Chichester, West Sussex, United Kingdom: Wiley; 2016. 
4. Herzog TN, Scheuren FJ, Winkler WE. Data quality and record linkage techniques. New York, NY: Springer; 2007. 227 p. 
5. Christen P. Data matching: concepts and techniques for record linkage, entity resolution, and duplicate detection. Berlin ; New York: Springer; 2012. 270 p. (Data-centric systems and applications). 
6. Developer AB, Developer MS. RecordLinkage: Record Linkage Functions for Linking and Deduplicating Data Sets [Internet]. 2020 [cited 2020 Apr 13]. Available from: https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=RecordLinkage
7. openvenues/libpostal [Internet]. openvenues; 2020 [cited 2020 Apr 12]. Available from: https://github.com/openvenues/libpostal
8. Laan J van der. djvanderlaan/reclin [Internet]. 2020 [cited 2020 Apr 12]. Available from: https://github.com/djvanderlaan/reclin


# Queuing Theory

1. Canadilla P. queueing: Analysis of Queueing Networks and Models [Internet]. 2019 [cited 2020 Apr 13]. Available from: https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=queueing
2. Jiménez PC, Montoya YR. queueing: A Package For Analysis Of Queueing Networks and Models in R. The R Journal [Internet]. 2017 [cited 2020 Apr 13];9(2):116–26. Available from: https://journal.r-project.org/archive/2017/RJ-2017-051/index.html
3. Queueing Theory Books On Line [Internet]. [cited 2020 Apr 13]. Available from: http://web2.uwindsor.ca/math/hlynka/qonline.html
4. Adan I, Resing J. Queueing Systems. :182. 
5. Salazar R. Queueing Models with R [Internet]. Medium. 2020 [cited 2020 Apr 13]. Available from: https://towardsdatascience.com/queueing-models-with-r-a794c78e6820
6. Ebert A, Wu P, Mengersen K, Ruggeri F. Computationally Efficient Simulation of Queues: The R Package queuecomputer. arXiv:170302151 [math, stat] [Internet]. 2019 Mar 6 [cited 2020 Apr 13]; Available from: http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.02151
7. berryrm.pdf [Internet]. [cited 2020 Apr 13]. Available from: https://www.whitman.edu/documents/Academics/Mathematics/berryrm.pdf
8. Ebert “Ace” A. AnthonyEbert/queuecomputer [Internet]. 2019 [cited 2020 Apr 13]. Available from: https://github.com/AnthonyEbert/queuecomputer
9. Bhat UN. An Introduction to Queueing Theory: Modeling and Analysis in Applications [Internet]. 2nd ed. Birkhäuser Basel; 2015 [cited 2020 Apr 13]. (Statistics for Industry and Technology). Available from: https://www.springer.com/gp/book/9780817684204

# Process Mining

1. Business Process Analysis [Internet]. [cited 2020 Apr 13]. Available from: https://www.bupar.net/
2. Janssenswillen G, Depaire B, Swennen M, Jans M, Vanhoof K. bupaR: Enabling reproducible business process analysis. Knowledge Based Systems [Internet]. 2019 Jan 1 [cited 2020 Apr 13]; Available from: https://scinapse.io/papers/2898939393
3. Janssenswillen G, Mannhardt F, Martin N, Houdt GV. bupaR: Business Process Analysis in R [Internet]. 2020 [cited 2020 Apr 13]. Available from: https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=bupaR
4. Janssenswillen G, Depaire B. bupaR: Business Process Analysis in R. In 2017. 

# Quality control

WIP. This section will be filled with Deming, Juran and others.
